Before we can learn how to retrieve data
from the Foursquare database, we need to create a developer account. Let me walk
you through the process of doing that. So let's go to Foursquare.com and click on
the Developer tab on the top right corner of the page. This will take us to the developer page.
Now click on Create Account. Here, we don't have an account yet, so
click on Sign up for Foursquare. Now on this page, go ahead and fill in your
personal information, and once you're done hit the Sign up button. Congratulations! Your developer account
is now created. On May 31st of 2018, Foursquare updated their API, and unlike
before, now there are some limitations on how many calls you can make to the API.
So when you create a developer account, the default type is the sandbox account,
with 950 regular calls per day and 50 premium calls per day, and you can
retrieve only one photo and one tip per venue. I'll explain the different
types of calls in a minute but let's first go ahead and create a new app so
we can start making calls to the API and retrieving data. Click on create a new
app. Let's name it coursera-capstone-project and give it the URL
www.courseracapstoneproject.com. Normally, if you're leveraging the Foursquare data in a real app that you're building, then you would type it here but
since we're not building any app then it doesn't really matter what URL we use. Once you're done, check the two boxes and click continue.
The next step is to choose your account here, in case you're not very happy with
the features you get with the default sandbox account. Foursquare now has three
developer verified account tiers and you will get to know why I said verified in
a second. There is the personal account which is still free, and with it you get
99,500 regular calls and 500 premium
calls. That is actually 100 times more calls than the default sandbox account.
You'll also get access to over 105 million venues or points of interest, but
you still only get two photos and two tips per venue, which is just one more
photo and tip compared to the sandbox account. The other two tiers are for
companies and enterprises so they don't really apply to us. Now if you want to
proceed, choose the personal account and click
continue. The reason why I said verified account in the previous slide
is because to be able to upgrade to the personal account you will need to
provide your credit card information, but it won't be charged and will only be
used for verification purposes. This step is really optional and you don't have to
fill in your credit card information if you are not comfortable with that, but
just be mindful of how many calls you can make with the sandbox account if you
end up using the API for any personal projects. If you decide to upgrade to a
personal account, fill in your credit card information and click verify. If you
don't wish to upgrade simply click on "Return to My Apps" and that's it. You can
now see the app that you just created and your Foursquare API credentials: your
Client ID and your Client Secret. You will need to pass these credentials
every time you make a call to the API. Now what is a regular call and the
premium call? The Foursquare API is really very well documented
so if you go to Docs, it will take you to the documentation overview page. You can
click on API and then endpoints overview, and here you will find the different
groups and endpoints available and whether each endpoint falls under a
regular or a premium call. So to search for coffee shops around you for example,
your call to the API would be considered a regular call. You would use the search
endpoint to search for coffee shops around you. This is considered a regular
call but learning more about Kaffe 1668 from the previous video, would be
considered a premium call. So you would either use the details endpoint which is
considered a premium call or if you want to get the venue's tips or the hours or
the menu or any links, these are all considered a premium call. Please
bookmark this page as you will find it very useful when working with the
Foursquare API. At this point you should be ready to start making calls to the
Foursquare API. In the next video, I will show you how you can start communicating
with the Foursquare database and making calls to its API to retrieve location
data. I'll see you in the next video.