Welcome to this module of the capstone
project course. In this video, we will start learning about Foursquare and how
their data looks like. So let's get started. As a brief introduction for
those who are still not very clear about Foursquare, Foursquare is a technology
company that built a massive dataset of location data. What is interesting about
Foursquare is that they were very smart about building their dataset. They
actually crowd-sourced their data and had people use their app to build their dataset and add venues and complete any missing information they had in their
dataset. Currently its location data is the most comprehensive out there, and
quite accurate that it powers location data for many popular services like
Apple Maps, Uber, Snapchat, Twitter and many others, and is currently being used
by over 100,000 developers, and this number is only growing. To try out
Foursquare you can either use their phone app or their online website. So you
can go to Foursquare com, and this will be the landing page. In the centre, you
will find two fields: one for what you're looking for and another one for the
location of interest. So say it's your first time visiting New York City and
you're saying at the Conrad hotel, but you're not quite familiar with the area
and you would like to go for coffee. So what you do is you type words related to
coffee like coffee or coffee shops and you specify the address around which to
search. In this case, the Conrad Hotel is at 102 North End Avenue in New York and
then you hit search. And here are the coffee shops that are returned by
Foursquare. On the left you see the name, the category, and the address of each of
the venues serving coffee around the Conrad Hotel. And on the right side, you
see a map of the venues in the list on the left. According to the map, coffee shop number
16 is the closest, and is called Kaffe 1668, and has an
average rating of 9.0. If you click on it on the map, the list on the left scrolls
to this venue. You can also explore the venue, so if you click on it you will be
redirected to its page on Foursquare. This is the page pertaining to Kaffe 1668
on Foursquare. On this page you can find all information in the Foursquare dataset about Kaffe 1668. This includes its name, full address, working hours, menu, and tips and images that users have posted about the shop and any of its drinks. You
can check out the tips posted, so if you click the tips tab, it will take you to
the tips section on this page. In this section, you can see how many tips users
submitted about Kaffe 1668. We can see that there are 338 tips and reviews
submitted. The first review is by a user named Jessica and her tip was upvoted
by another user. The review says "Unique coffee options and hipster baristas to
tell you all about them. Downstairs is usually empty and quiet.
Don't be turned off by the giant fridge in the room, great space for getting work
done." At that point, you might decide to know more about this user and check
if she had given any other tips or reviews about other places nearby. So if
you click on her name, you'll be redirected to her page on Foursquare.
This is the page of Jessica on Foursquare. Here you can see that she is
a very active Foursquare user. She actually posted 269 other tips and
reviews, and has 38 followers, and is following 36 users. On her page you can
also see what places she's been to, and what images or tips she posted about
different places. So you decide to go to Kaffe 1668 for coffee, but you're
interested in knowing what other spots are popular around the Conrad Hotel so you can go check them out after you have your coffee. You can again use
the Foursquare website for that. You simply enter the location of interest
and leave the other field empty. Once you hit Search, Foursquare will
return all the popular spots around the Conrad Hotel. Notice how now the popular places are of different categories. So there is Central Park which is obviously
a park and there is the Metropolitan Museum of Art and so on. What is great
about the Foursquare data is that all this data is available for free so you
can actually build something similar. Actually, all this data was available for free without any limitations until May 31st
of 2018. We will learn more about the Foursquare database in the next couple
of videos. In the next videos, I will demystify the process of communicating
with the Foursquare database and explain to you what happens under the hood every
time we clicked the search button to search for coffee shops or learn more
about a shop or a Foursquare user. So I'll see you in the next video.